Add the Custom SSL certificate renewal process (#2151)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-on-server.adoc

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_{project-context}_{context}"]

> = Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {ProjectServer}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Renewing a {customssltitle} Certificate on {ProjectServer}
```

Use this procedure to update your {customssl} certificate for {ProjectServer}.

.Prerequisite

> You must create a new Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
```

Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In return, you will receive the {ProjectServer} certificate and CA bundle.

.Procedure

> Before deploying a renewed custom certificate on your {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} input files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before deploying a renewed custom certificate on your {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} input files.
```

Note that for the `katello-certs-check` command to work correctly, Common Name (CN) in the certificate must match the FQDN of {ProjectServer}:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# katello-certs-check -t {project-context} \
-b /root/_{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \
-c /root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert.pem_ \
-k /root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert_key.pem_
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

> If the command is successful, it returns the following `{foreman-installer}` command.
> This can be used to deploy the renewed CA certificates to {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the command is successful, it returns the following `{foreman-installer}` command.
You can use this command to deploy the renewed CA certificates to {ProjectServer}:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario} \
--certs-server-cert "/root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert.pem_" \
--certs-server-key "/root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_key.pem_" \
--certs-server-ca-cert "/root/_{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server --certs-update-server-ca
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not delete the certificate files after you deploy the certificate.
It is required, for example, when upgrading {ProjectServer}.
====

[NOTE]
====
If a new consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` is generated due to a different Certificate Signing Authority, all the clients registered to {ProjectServer} should be updated.
====

.Verification

> . On your local machine, go to https://{foreman-example-com}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On your local machine, go to the address of your {ProjectServer} (_https://{foreman-example-com}_).
```

Reviewer 2: "the address of your Foreman" sounds a bit off to me. Maybe "Access your {ProjectServer} from your browser" or "Access the {ProjectWebUI} from your local machine."?

Instead of "(FQDN).", you can also say ", for example FQDN.".

Author: Addressed :+1:

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_{project-context}_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {ProjectServer}

[NOTE]
====
If a new consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` is generated due to a different Certificate Signing Authority, all the clients registered to {ProjectServer} should be updated.
====

> Use this procedure to update your renewed {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) for {ProjectServer}.

Author: I agree from the readability perspective. :+1:

The `katello-certs-check` command validates the input certificate files and returns the commands necessary to renew a {customssl} certificate for {ProjectServer}.

.Prerequisite
Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

.Procedure
You must create a new Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.

> In return, you will receive the {ProjectServer} certificate and CA bundle.

Author: Added :+1:

Before deploying a renewed custom certificate on your {ProjectServer}, follow these steps:

> * Validate the {customssl} input files.

Author: Addressed :+1:

> [id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_Server_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_{project-context}_{context}"]
```

= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {ProjectServer}

[NOTE]
====
If {ProjectServer} is already configured with CA-signed SSL certificates, and it is renewed by the same Certificate Authority, avoid replacing the consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` on clients registered to {ProjectServer}.

If the validity of CA-signed SSL certificates installed on {Project} from Certificate Authority A expires, and you installed an SSL certificate from Certificate Authority B, you must re-deploy the `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package on every client registered to {Project}.

> You need a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with {ProjectServer}.

Author: Reworded the note :+1:

====

Use this procedure to update your renewed {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) for {ProjectServer}.
The `katello-certs-check` command validates the input certificate files and returns the commands necessary to renew a {customssl} certificate for {ProjectServer}.

.Prerequisite

> Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

Author: I guess, this can be a prerequisite because we are asking for extensions as a requirement.

> .Prerequisite
> Refer to the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.13/html-single/installing_satellite_server_in_a_connected_network_environment/index#Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_satellite[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate should have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ifdef::satellite[]
.Prerequisite
Refer to the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_satellite/6.13/html-single/installing_satellite_server_in_a_connected_network_environment/index#Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_satellite[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate should have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.
endif::[]
```

and we have an attribute for links to access.redhat.com: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/blob/master/guides/common/attributes-satellite.adoc#L7 (also with the version as attribute)

Author: Undoubtedly :+1:

.Procedure
You must create a new Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {ProjectServer} certificate and CA bundle.

Before deploying a renewed custom certificate on your {ProjectServer}, follow these steps:

* Validate the {customssl} input files.
Note that for the `katello-certs-check` command to work correctly, Common Name (CN) in the certificate must match the FQDN of {ProjectServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# katello-certs-check -t {project-context} \
-b /root/_{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \
-c /root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert.pem_ \
-k /root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert_key.pem_

> ----

Reviewer 3: I am inclined to leave this in because users see running the installer as a "major" action that can result in service downtime. I believe they get annoyed when they get ready to take that downtime and it fails, and now they have to either get a new outage window or extend the current one while they debug their certificate issue.

> ----

Reviewer 4: Because of https://projects.theforeman.org/issues/36567 we need to leave it in for now. Right now we can't rely on the installer halting. In the future we can drop it.

As for the downtime argument: I didn't consider that. IMHO it's something to address. Users should not be scared to run the installer.

> ----

Reviewer 3: > As for the downtime argument: I didn't consider that. IMHO it's something to address. Users should not be scared to run the installer.

I think is a good, bigger conversation.

> ----

Reviewer 3: We could consider an enhancement (not blocking to this change) to add a "--check-certs" type option to the installer that would align the interface for users to be the installer but allow them to check the certs without executing the rest of the installer.

If the validity of CA-signed SSL certificates installed on {Project} from Certificate Authority A expires, and you installed an SSL certificate from Certificate Authority B, then you must re-deploy the `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package on every client registered to {Project}.
This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with {Project}.
====

Use this procedure to update your renewed {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) for {ProjectServer}.
The `katello-certs-check` command validates the input certificate files and returns the commands necessary to renew a {customssl} certificate for {ProjectServer}.

ifdef::satellite[]
.Prerequisite
Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_satellite[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate should have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.
endif::[]

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.Procedure
```

You must create a new Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {ProjectServer} certificate and CA bundle.

Before deploying a renewed custom certificate on your {ProjectServer}, complete the following steps:

* Validate the {customssl} input files.

> Note that for the `katello-certs-check` command to work correctly, Common Name (CN) in the certificate must match the FQDN of {ProjectServer}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that for the `katello-certs-check` command to work correctly, Common Name (CN) in the certificate must match the FQDN of {ProjectServer}:
```

Note that for the `katello-certs-check` command to work correctly, Common Name (CN) in the certificate must match the FQDN of {ProjectServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # katello-certs-check \

Reviewer 4: By now it's required to specify `-t TYPE`, like is mentioned in https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2192.

> -c /root/{project-context}_cert/New_{project-context}_cert.pem \
> -k /root/{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert_key.pem \
> -b /root/{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-b /root/_{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \
-c /root/_{project-context}_cert/new_{project-context}_cert.pem_ \
-k /root/_{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert_key.pem_
```

I've sorted it in alphabetical order; used lowercase "new", and added italic highlighting to the paths that users have to replace/adjust.

Author: Even applied at other places :+1:

----
+

> If the command is successful, it returns the following ‘{foreman-installer}’ commands, that can be used to deploy the renewed CA certificates to {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the command is successful, it returns the following `{foreman-installer}` commands, that can be used to deploy the renewed CA certificates to {ProjectServer}:
```

Must be backticks, not single quotes.

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario} \

> --certs-server-cert "/root/{project-context}_cert/New_{project-context}_cert.pem" \

Reviewer 2: same as above.

Author: Applied :+1:

--certs-server-key "/root/{project-context}_cert/{project-context}_cert_key.pem" \
--certs-server-ca-cert "/root/{project-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem" \
--certs-update-server --certs-update-server-ca
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not delete the certificate archive file after you deploy the certificate.
It is required for other processes like upgrading {ProjectServer}.
====

.Verification

> . On a computer with network access to {ProjectServer}.
> Navigate to the following URL: https://{foreman-example-com}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On your local machine, navigate to https://{foreman-example-com}.
```

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_{project-context}_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {ProjectServer}

[NOTE]
====
If {ProjectServer} is already configured with CA-signed SSL certificates and has been renewed by the same Certificate Authority, you do not have to replace the consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` on clients registered to {ProjectServer}.

If the validity of CA-signed SSL certificates installed on {Project} from Certificate Authority A expires, and you installed an SSL certificate from Certificate Authority B, then you must re-deploy the `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package on every client registered to {Project}.
This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with {Project}.
====

Use this procedure to update your renewed {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority (CA) for {ProjectServer}.
The `katello-certs-check` command validates the input certificate files and returns the commands necessary to renew a {customssl} certificate for {ProjectServer}.

> ifdef::satellite[]

Author: Removed condition :+1:
